---
title: "Advanced"
description: ""
draft: false
weight: 4
bg_image: ""
toc : true
---

It is possible to interact with ICU via process communication. An external (Python) process can communicate with ICU via events and a shared memory object.

## Inter-process Communication
TODO - for now see the file `test/test_external.py` for details.

## Shared Memory
ICU exposes a shared memory object (implemented using process pipes), which other processes may read. The shared memory is created automatically with `process, memory = icu.start()`. it exposes the following attributes which can be accessed in the usual way (e.g. `memory.event_sinks`). 

* `event_sinks` - a list of event sink names, these are valid destinations for any events that be generated by another process.
* `event_sources` - a list of event sources, the sources of events that another process may receive from the ICU process.
* `window_properties` - a dictionary of sizes and positions of the various widgets in the ICU window's coordinate system, as well as the window size and position in the screen coordinate system.
* `config` - the ICU configuration options that were specified in the `config.json` file.

Accessing the shared memory will block until ICU has completed loading. The shared memory object is not bi-directional (read only), its purpose is to expose various useful properties of the ICU system to external processes.

## More information on the way.

For now, see this [example](https://github.com/dicelab-rhul/ICUA).



